# Conference Matchmaker

Conference Matchmaker is an intelligent system designed to enhance business conferences by helping participants establish valuable connections based on their skills and interests.

## Project Description

The system analyzes the attributes and preferences of conference participants to suggest the 5 most suitable people for each attendee to connect with. The goal is to maximize the value of interactions between participants by matching them based on their possessed and sought-after characteristics.

## Algorithm

The matching algorithm employs a genetic algorithm approach:

1. Generates random initial recommendations for each participant.
2. Evaluates solutions using a fitness function that rewards good matches and penalizes poor ones.
3. Iteratively improves the solution through mutation (randomly changing some recommendations) and selection (keeping better solutions).
4. Repeats for a set number of generations to optimize overall match quality.

This method aims to maximize meaningful connections among conference participants based on their attributes and preferences.

## Input file

The input file provided to the algorithm contains a list of 
participants, each described by their unique ID, their possessed attributes, and the attributes they are seeking. The format of the file is as follows:

Each line represents a single participant.
- The line begins with a unique numerical ID.
- This is followed by the attributes the participant possesses.
- Finally, the attributes the participant is seeking are listed.

The fields are separated by a tab character (\t). 

Example Format:
```
1    DEVELOPER    INVESTOR,DEVELOPER
2    INVESTOR     SALES,MARKETING
3    DEVELOPER    DEVELOPER,ARCHITECT
...
```



### Installing project dependencies 
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Running external scripts (ruff)
```
ruff check 
ruff format
```
### Example program execution
You can customize the number of iterations and recommendations generated by the program according to your needs.
```
python main.py data\input.tsv --iterations 10000 --recommendations 5
```
